---
title: "Certified Red Team Operator"
date: 2023-01-08
description: 'Certified Red Team Operator (CRTO) certification review.'
image: images/stormtrooper.jpg
tags: ["Certification"]
categories: ["Cybersecurity"]
---

# Welcome back!

Today I want to talk about CRTO certification I recently achieved.

Googling for CRTO (Certified Red Team Operator), there are dozens of reviews explaining the exam, the lab and the course offered by ZeroPoint Security and RastaMouse.
I really do not want to reinvent the wheel for the umpteenth time but instead, to propose an approach that I have hardly found out there and which is working in my case, hoping this can be useful or encouraging for you too!

Prior to enrolling in it I had heard about this course from a work colleague and luckily it came when I most needed it. In fact, my journey started studying OSCP.
At a certain point, I realized that Active Directory part in the new exam, effective from 2022, would be too difficult for me to overcome. So? I felt stuck, and I had to find a way to study this topic before approaching OSCP again.

Yes, I took this certification **WITHOUT** having my OSCP and I think this path could be useful for those who want to take both. Let me tell you why.
In fact, even if the difficulty of the CRTO is undoubted, especially for those who face Active Directory from scratch, still it remains a certification for beginners, with 2 main advantages in my opinion compared to OSCP.

## First, **the scope**.
CRTO is limited in scope to __Active Directory__ and __Cobalt Strike__. A nice advantage I would say compared to the sea of arguments that are required to pass OSCP.
I think there is a lot of confusion as to whether OSCP should be considered the first one just because it doesn't go as deep into AD topic as CRTO does.
Well, I think that's just the reason why you should consider to focus on this certification **as your first one**.
Isn't it easier to study one thing deeply than to study many?

Maybe I will say something unpopular here, but I think there is a lot of hype around certain certifications and this doesn't help people who want to obtain them.
Instead, it rushes you, it makes you think you have to break your backs to get it (and in part this can be true, but let's not exaggerate!) and mostly, it generates a particular disappointment in not being able to obtain them.
Just think about it, so many certifications could help you explore topics in great depth and to become an expert about them. At that point, those certifications that seem unattainable will really be more affordable and will leave something more indelible within us both as knowledge and as experience. They will still remains challenging of course, but definitely more enjoyable.

Often the target of those who undertake these paths is that of those who already work or have a family. This is not to be underestimated and indeed, in my opinion it represents the biggest obstacle. In this scenario **ANY** certification becomes difficult, and those that are already particularly difficult, obviously become impossible.
By impossible here I mean the concept of getting used to the idea of failing the exam on the first try. I mean, an exam can always go wrong, it is clear, but if I could have the time I had when I was in university or even worse in high school to dedicate myself to certifications, well I certainly wouldn't be as anxious as I am now about them.

So, let's frame ourselves well. Most of us are workers, a large number of us have family, so we have to hold on to something else, certainly not time :)
Well in this case we are lucky. What do hackers and infosec experts have in common? Curiosity, and desire to learn. Having said that, I believe that what I said before takes on even more value and therefore I want to repeat it.

### Let’s study one thing well, deeply and then move on.

When you're faced with a soup of stuff, make sure you're an expert on most of the things that go into that soup. If this means deferring some certifications, do it and focus yourself on the topic, not the badge.
**CRTO lets you doing it about Active Directory concepts.**
Just keep this in mind.

## Second reason, Exam time.

The most important in my experience.
I found it brutal working 4 days in a row I am not ashamed to admit it. In the case of CRTO you have 48 hours spread over 4 days so it means approximately 12 hours per day if you want to take rest, eat, take a walk or whatever.
Well, having said that, if I have learned one thing from this exam it is that I am not at all ready to face an exam where I only have 24 hours available, and I think most of us share the same problem. This is the reason why you hear a lot of time that in some certification the first attempt went wrong. Are you considering the idea that working with this rush is not ok for you AT THIS TIME? You need to train it too, as everything.
Working 4 days certainly tired me out, but it gave me the opportunity to reflect a lot and unblock myself in moments of stalemate. I took a whole day to get the fourth flag, and if I had only had one day I sure wouldn't have made it.
This is a skill to train, not a natural skill. How do you train it? Spending time in the lab and experimenting. Do we all have this time? Not always, for the reasons we mentioned above. Therefore? So it pays to be an expert (at least as much as possible). Experts about what? About how to do priv-esc in a linux environment, how to do it in a Windows environment. Expert about Active Directory. They are all different worlds. In this way everything becomes easier.<br />

I am currently studying OSCP and I will continue to do so according to my schedule. I'm pretty confident that soon I will be ready, but certifications like the CRTO are very helpful, interesting, and they should fearlessly be considered a first choice in the learning path of someone working in infosec. For the record, at the time I started the certification I had 0 active directory background but rather experience on linux systems and some programming languages (off topic for CRTO)

For any other information, I don't think there is much to say unfortunately, apart from the information you find on the Zeropoint security site. I mean, take the lab time.
You're told it is 40 hours and you will hear in pretty every review that's a generous offer. It is in objectivey, 40 hours is not a short time, but it can be for you.
For example, I had to buy 15 hours more than the 40 you are given in the course.
This is to say that we are all different and reviews sometimes don't help because we think too much about what others experienced. Instead, each test is unique and unrepeatable. Forget everything, don't think about anything except learning a concept well. This must be your mantra :) no one else.

This review is just my 2 cents and is not meant to discredit anyone, BUT it is meant to destroy false myths and cemented ideas. It doesn't matter what comes first or what comes after. Learn to become good. Slowly and well.

**TIP:**
Listen again, or for the first time:<br />
>Minor Threat - Salad Days (1985) 🥗

Peace
